##Introduction
###What is figma? 
Generic UX design workflow
	Concept, brainstorm, gather info. 
We're creating personas, user flows, how they get from point A to point B. 
	Wireframe/design, we could not care about how it looks or a fully fledged design. 
	Prototype- how would pepole actually use it? 
	Share/test/feedback
	Iterate- we can cahnges on that feedback make changes. 
	Build. 
Figma works within the first several stages (note, since this video, Figma has added a Dev environment, so, that may change later...

##Getting started with Figma
###Sign up for Figma
You can skip ahead in this video to the workspace part if you've already signed in. If yo wuant

You can swich on the sidebar between figma accounts. On the right, you see your profile info. You can see file info and teams that you're a part of. You can see plugins that you have installed and individual settings, the settings are important. 

For any notifications, for comments, etc, you'll see them up there. You can easily search for files, like a restaraunt, you will start typing it and you will find it. Under recent, these are recently viewed files. These are just files. You're not going to be working on a project file. When you're working with teams, you'll be working with files. 

You can view drafts up there, you can import a file up at the top, or, add a new one. If you delete a file you can see those deleted files, by clicking deleted. If you delete them and want them back you can restore them, or, delete them forever. Under community, you may want to learn more about web design. So, you can go up on one of the tabs and click on it to learn more. 

If you were to see a new team, you would see the content associated with it. Under the help and resources, this is where you'll find out helpful resources. 
 
###Set up local fonts
When you're working with figma in the browser, you'll have access to a lot of google fonts already there. What you want to do is install figma font's helper. Note- I am not able to install fonts on Linux locally to Figma. Essentially, on the Windows side, you select install, and, you install the software. 

You can't use Adobe fonts unless you've activated them locally, then, you can see them in figma. 

##Setting up your file in figma
###Create a new file
You start your design process by creating a file. If you see the drafts, you see the plus icon. Don't do the plus view yet, you'll create a blank new file that you can start editing. It's something that you're going to be working on. 

Click on the plus. You'll see that there are tons of templates and things to build with. You can start with a desktop. You can start with blank presets. Blank canvas just means that you create your own. 

Under teams, there are things that you can start something from. You can do wireframing, low-fi wireframe kit, these are all templates to start from. If you know what you're ogint to do, you may want to start with a size there, it will put the file in drafts. 

If you want to make it parto f a team, you could do that. What's crazy is that it's automatically done it, it's saved it, saved it to the cloud. You could call it restaraunt app. Just a quick lay of the land, there, the layers and assets sidebar on the left, and, properties ont he right. Design is on the left, on prototype is to the next, making it interactive. You can also inspect it to copy it and use it to move it somewhere else. We will learn some of zooming as well. Those are the toolbar. You'll see that you have your men, file, edit, copy, a ton of stuff. Typically, go back to file, and, you will go back to the file browser. If you double click on the file, you will open it up again and you're ready to start editing content. 

###Create and edit frames
A frame is like a storyboard in other applications, it has a preset size. Don't need to represent a screen in an app, they can represent anything, they could be an overlay for instance. If you go to the name, you can change the name on the left. 

###Create pages
To start with, you have one pages where all your frames lives. You can go a long time without needing another page. But, you can separate design content, mobile tablet and desktop. On there, you'll see the three frames that you made. We will see that on pages. If you don't want to create pages going forward, you don't need to. 

##Adding content in figma
###Create shapes
Adding shapes is super simple. On the menu, you select the shape item, and, you can choose between rectangles, ellipses, etc. Ctrl + d duplicates the shapes. You can click on them, change the corner radius if you want to. You can place shapes within shapes. 

###Combine and edit shapes
Remember, under help and resources you can see all the different shortcuts that there are in Figma. Shift + 2 is one that we will be using a lot, this one focuses the object. Also, remember that you can align the items as well in Figma using the distribution item. You place the object in another object, then, you select both objects, and, you select subtract selection. The selection is now subtracted. You can change the size of the object within the object, and, you can also change the fill or stroke with it. The instructor went over some color basics. 

###An intro to drawing
We will take a look at drawing with the pen tool. In your restaruant app, 

###Add images
Working with images in Figma is pretty neat, you are essentially selecting shapes and placing the images in the shapes. You have a couple of options within Figma, for instance, you can choose  a number of basic tools for editing images, or, for cropping, you want to start from a fill, and, then crop, then, you can get the full size of the image. It's neat. 

###Hide parts of content with a mask
Working with masks is not super complicated. Essentially, you have to have the object that you wish to use as a mask behind the object that you want to mask, so, you need to select send to back. Then, you can do all sorts of things within the context menu of moving the item.

###Get creative with effects
Transparency, adding effect to things, taking an image and adding blur to it. Select the image within that group. Make sure that you have the image selected. Go to the right, we have the fill, but, we can stack multiple fills on top of another and have a blending thing going on.

Essentially, similar to masks, we draw a shape with the area that we want to selectively target, then, we can add a color to that shape, and, change the lightness for that particular object. Brian says that may be enough, but, not for him. You can also change the blend modes for particular items. You can add really neat effects for transparency. 

###Import content from UI kits
Okay. I sort of got it. I think that Brian's image was not sufficiently the same as the one that he was demoing, but, I was able to make due with it. Essentially, you go to the community page under figma.com and you can find content to import that way. This way, you don't have to start from scratch every single time. Then, Brian walked us through importing a UI kit from the community page.

When you're on the community page, you drill down into the UI items, and, then you bring them into the restaurant app. 

Note, for the next one, I might just watch. It has to do with formatting text. I was planning, on, using Bard AI to use as a text copy until I go onto the next step. 



###Add and format text

##Work smarter
###Organize with layers
Content in Figma is already in layers. You don't click select frames, it already shows you it in orders. Up above, you have the layers and assets. One more thing is that when you click on that image down there, the third image, drag it outside of the frame. If you drag things and it's not in the frame, you'll see that anything that's not in a frame will just be loose. 

You'll see that that's just sitting there. You can take it and drag it onto menu and let go. Brian wants to put it on the bottom, cick send to back, and, you'll see that it's still on the frame, but, at the bottom. You can also drag it. Just something that happens, and, Brian says that you'll find that it happens sooner or later. 

###Save formatting you can reuse
If you have a button, and, you want to reuse that elsewhere, you can reuse that as a style. If you have text formatting, you can reuse that elswhere as we ll. If you look on the left, you notice you have an orange fill, if you wanted to, you could search styles that have been created, or make your own.

Interesting. So, I think it's a way of saving formatting. However, I think that the video displayed was too basic when it came to telling the different types of options when it comes to saving and reusing styles. The point is that they are similar to Microsoft Office, which, can be helpful later on in your design work. 

###Reuse content with components
You can save things as components with reusable elements. If you make copies of it, you can make it as an instance. Let's make it as a component. *I am watching for this one*. Let's make a button, a shape, and, add the text Menu. Scroll up if you need to. You should be able to do the alignment methods. 

Change the color to white. Shift click the button, we will make it a component now, you can right click, create button, you can click on the context menu. If you notice that you have the purple color that says Component 1, that indicates that it's a component. You will see local components, and, if you see something like that, you can actually see what the component looks like. 

If you find a component in the layer stack, double click on that name. If you make an instance, you can opt or alt drag that button, this is what's known as an instance. Purple means that it's the original. 

On the right, you have a description that you can add, and, you can also add documentation link, if you had documentation somewhere else. You'll want to have the buttons be center aligned, you'll want to have room for growth. Certain things to do to affet these instances. 

You can remove the orange fill style and change it from the original instance. 

You can make multiple components at once from things that you select, don't click on the first option, click on the arrow and you will select create multiple components, they will now live in different frames. You can add it and drag it out. You don't have to make it a copy? 

There are times when Brian likes to take some of the components that Brian uses and put them in the components. These could be components, artwork, all different types of things. 

Just so that Brian has them in a central place. 

###Reuse content with constrai
nts
We can apply constraints so the content will scale, move, and move in certain positions if we want. 

What we need to do is have the selection within a frame, once the selection is in a frame, we can resize it. If we zoom out  a tiny bit, you'll find that some interesting things are going on. Okay. So, I think that what Brian is saying is that this is more relevant to frames. What Brian will do is set a layout grid, instead of pixels, you can set columns or rows. You wannt to have 1, 2, 3, 4 columns. These are going to stretch. You could choose keep everything right aligned, left aligned, center aligned. 

Horizontilly, you would choose scale. Let's just scale it. Click back on and try to stretch it. Now, make sure that they all stay centered in their areas. It's set to scale and scaled, Brian wants it centered in that area, if you choose center center, it will stay center within that area. 

Last thing you'll do, double click on each one, center center. 

##Prototyping
###An intro to prototypigg
###Start prototyping
Dang, I think that the file that came with this course was not that great, so, I can't quite do what he wanted me to do. Essentially, you are drilling into an object in the footer, and, you can determine what it is that you want to do, when, you select the object, on tap, we will have it navigate to the iPhone menu page. Tons of things that we can do here. We're just scratching the surface. 

Instant just means show the next frame quickly. Dissolve is sort of what they do on the web. Smart animate is pretty amazing. You'll need to search for that. 

You can select preserve scroll position. Now,you can essentially do the same thing that Brian is doing in any part of the menu that selects prototype. If we want to select location for instance, in his example, we can double click on the location and drag it out there. If we choose dissolve, we can tell it, do we want it to ease in (starts slow), or ease out (ends slow). You can set a time for how long it takes, fast or slow. 

Prototyping can give you a lot of ways that you can try your own content. Explore the community content so that way you can practice. 
  
##Conclusion
###Goodbye
